# 12. CI/CD

Date: 2021-08-29

## Status

Status: Accepted on 2021-08-29
Builds on [0010-programming-language.md](0010-programming-language.md) on 2021-08-29
Foundation for [0013-management-setup.md](0013-management-setup.md) on 2021-09-10
Foundation for [0016-cli.md](0016-cli.md) on 2021-09-26

## Context

Define how and with which CI/CD tool we will, for example, build, deploy and destroy the components which define a platform.

## Decision

We are hosting the code on GitHub so to keep things simple we have decided to use GitHub Actions as the CI/CD tool.

Opsteady uses different tools and technologies to create, test, build, deploy, and more to deliver a platform. This is however done in multiple steps where the components need credentials, configuration, and more. To make sure we can switch CI/CD tools and to be able to execute these steps locally we need to make sure that the logic is not hardcoded in the CI/CD pipeline. To achieve this and also to have forced consistency we will create our own cli which will have the desired logic. The CI/CD tool will only act as an executor. Following the programming ADR, we will be creating this in Go.

It is very important to know exactly which components and their corresponding version are deployed. Because the upgrade paths for a running platform follow each other and are only tested with a specific set of components and their version. Having said that in this stage of the project we are deciding not to version the components nor the full collection for now. We are assuming every merge to master is tested as an upgrade path and then applied to all clusters before the next merge to master happens.

## Consequences

We need to build and maintain a custom cli which is extra work and might bring extra complexity for new members. Because we are choosing to deploy from master now we know we need to revisit this process later on.
